CHAPTER I. DOWN THE RABBIT HOLE
Alice was beginning to get very tired of sitting by her sister on the bank and of having nothing
to do. Once or twice she peeped into the book her sister was reading, but it had no pictures
or conversations in it. And what's the use of a book, thought Alice, without pictures
or conversation? So she was considering in her own mind, as well as she could, for the
hot day made her feel very sleepy and stupid, whether the pleasure of making a daisy chain
would be worth the trouble of getting up and picking the daisies, when suddenly a white
rabbit with pink eyes ran close by her. There was nothing so very remarkable in that, nor
did Alice think it so very much out of the way to hear the rabbit say to itself, Oh dear,
I shall be late. When she thought it over afterwards, it occurred to her that she ought
to have wondered at this, but at the time it all seemed quite natural. But when the
rabbit actually took a watch out of its waistcoat pocket and looked at it, and then hurried
on, Alice started to her feet, for it flashed across her mind that she had never before
seen a rabbit with either a waistcoat pocket or a watch to take out of it, and burning
with curiosity, she ran across the field after it, and fortunately was just in time to see
it pop down a large rabbit hole under the hedge. In another moment, down went Alice
after it, never once considering how in the world she was to get out again. The rabbit
hole went straight on like a tunnel for some way, and then dipped suddenly down, so suddenly
that Alice had not a moment to think about stopping herself before she found herself
falling down a very deep well. Either the well was very deep, or she fell very slowly,
for she had plenty of time as she went down to look about her and to wonder what was going
to happen next. First, she tried to look down and make out what she was coming to,
but it was too dark to see anything. Then she looked at the sides of the well, and noticed
that they were filled with cupboards and bookshelves. Here and there, she saw maps and pictures
hung upon pegs. She took down a jar from one of the shelves as she passed. It was labelled
orange marmalade, but to her great disappointment it was empty. She did not like to drop the
jar for fear of killing somebody, so she managed to put it into one of the cupboards as she
fell past it.
Well, thought Alice to herself, after such a fall as this, I shall think nothing of tumbling
downstairs. How brave they'll all think me at home. Why, I wouldn't say anything about
it even if I fell off the top of a house, which was very likely true.
Down, down, down. Would the fall never come to an end? I wonder how many miles I've fallen
by this time, she said aloud. I must be getting somewhere near the centre of the earth. Let
me see, that would be four thousand miles down, I think. For you see, Alice had learnt
several things of this sort in her lessons in the schoolroom, and though this was not
a very good opportunity for showing off her knowledge as there was no one to listen to
her, still it was good practice to say it over. Yes, that's about the right distance,
but then I wonder what latitude or longitude I've got to. Alice had no idea what latitude
was, or longitude either, but thought they were nice grand words to say. Presently she
began again, I wonder if I shall fall right through the earth. How funny it'll seem to
come out among the people that walk with their heads downward. The antipathies, I think.
She was rather glad there was no one listening this time, as it didn't sound at all the
right word. But I shall have to ask them what the name of the country is, you know. Please,
ma'am, is this New Zealand or Australia? And she tried to curtsy as she spoke. Fancy curtsying
as you're falling through the air. Do you think you could manage it? And what an ignorant
little girl she'll think me for asking. No, it'll never do to ask. Perhaps I shall see
it written up somewhere. Down, down, down. There was nothing else to do, so Alice soon
began talking again. Dinah will miss me very much tonight, I should think. Dinah was the
cat. I hope they'll remember her saucer of milk at tea time. Dinah, my dear, I wish you
were down here with me. There are no mice in the air, I'm afraid, but you might catch
And that's very like a mouse, you know. But do cats eat bats, I wonder? And here Alice
began to get rather sleepy and went on saying to herself in a dreamy sort of way, do cats
eat bats? Do cats eat bats? And sometimes, do bats eat cats? For you see, as she couldn't
answer either question, it didn't much matter which way she put it. She felt that she was
dozing off and had just begun to dream that she was walking hand in hand with Dinah and
saying to her very earnestly, now Dinah, tell me the truth, did you ever eat a bat? When
suddenly thump, thump, down she came upon a heap of sticks and dry leaves and the fall
was over. Alice was not a bit hurt and she jumped up on her feet in a moment. She looked
up but it was all dark overhead. Before her was another long passage and the white rabbit
was still in sight hurrying down it. There was not a moment to be lost. Away went Alice
like the wind and was just in time to hear it say as it turned a corner, oh my ears
and whiskers, how late it's getting. She was close behind it when she turned the corner
but the rabbit was no longer to be seen. She found herself in a long low hall which was
lit up by a row of lamps hanging from the roof. There were doors all around the hall
but they were all locked and when Alice had been all the way down one side and up the
other trying every door, she walked sadly down the middle wondering how she was ever
to get out again. Suddenly she came upon a little three legged table all made of solid
glass. There was nothing on it except a tiny golden key and Alice's first thought was
that it might belong to one of the doors of the hall. But alas, either the locks were
too large or the key was too small but at any rate it would not open any of them. However,
on the second time round she came upon a low curtain she had not noticed before and behind
it was a little door about 15 inches high. She tried the little golden key in the lock
and to her great delight it fitted. Alice opened the door and found it led into a small
passage not much larger than a rat hole. She knelt down and looked along the passage into
the loveliest garden you ever saw. How she longed to get out of that dark hall and wander
about among those beds of bright flowers and those cool fountains but she could not even
get her head through the doorway. And even if my head would go through thought poor Alice
it would be of very little use without my shoulders. Oh, how I wish I could shut up
like a telescope. I think I could if I only know how to begin. For you see so many out
of the way things had happened lately that Alice had begun to think that very few things
indeed were really impossible. There seemed to be no use in waiting by the little door
so she went back to the table half hoping she might find another key on it or at any
a book of rules for shutting people up like telescopes. This time she found a little bottle
on it which certainly was not here before said Alice. Around the neck of the bottle
was a paper label with the words drink me beautifully printed on it in large letters.
It was all very well to say drink me but the wise little Alice was not going to do that
in a hurry. No, I'll look first she said and see whether it's marked poison or not for
she had read several nice little histories about children who'd gotten burnt and eaten
up by wild beasts and other unpleasant things all because they would not remember the simple
rules their friends had taught them such as that a red hot poker will burn you if you
hold it too long and that if you cut your finger very deeply with a knife it usually
bleeds and she had never forgotten that if you drink much from a bottle marked poison
it's almost certain to disagree with you sooner or later. However this bottle was not marked
poison so Alice ventured to taste it and finding it very nice it had in fact a sort of mixed
flavor of cherry tart, custard, pineapple, roast turkey, toffee and hot buttered toast.
She very soon finished it off. What a curious feeling said Alice. I must be shutting up
like a telescope and so it was indeed. She was now only 10 inches high and her face brightened
up at the thought that she was now the right size for going through the little door into
that lovely garden. First however she waited for a few minutes to see if she was going
to shrink any further. She felt a little nervous about this. For it might end you know, said
Alice to herself, in my going out altogether like a candle. I wonder what I should be like
then? And she tried to fancy what the flame of a candle is like after the candle is blown
out for she could not remember having ever seen such a thing. After a while finding that
nothing more happened she decided on going into the garden at once. But alas for poor
Alice when she got to the door she found she'd forgotten the little golden key and when she
went back to the table for it she found she could not possibly reach it. She could see
it quite plainly through the glass and she tried her best to climb up one of the legs
of the table but it was too slippery and when she had tired herself out with trying the
poor little thing sat down and cried. Come there's no use crying like that said Alice
to herself rather sharply. I advise you to leave off this minute. She generally gave
good advice though she very seldom followed it and sometimes she scolded herself so severely
as to bring tears into her eyes. She once remembered trying to box her own ears for
having cheated herself in a game of croquet she was playing against herself. For this
curious child was fond of pretending to be two people. But it's no use now thought poor
Alice to pretend to be two people why there's hardly enough of me to make one respectable
person. Soon her eye fell on a little glass box that was lying under the table. She opened
it and found in it a very small cake on which the words eat me were beautifully marked in
currents. Well I'll eat it said Alice and if it makes me grow larger I can reach the
key and if it makes me grow smaller I can creep under the door so either way I'll get
into the garden and I don't care which happens. She ate a little bit and said anxiously to
herself which way which way holding her hand on the top of her head to feel which way it
was growing and she was quite surprised to find that she remained the same size. To be
sure this generally happens when one eats cake but Alice had gotten so much into the
way of expecting nothing but out of the way things to happen that it seemed quite dull
and stupid for life to go on in the common way. So she set to work and very soon finished
off the cake. End of chapter one read by Krista McQuillan Tokyo Japan November 15th 2005.